---
layout: default
title: Consequences
stylesheet: consequences.css
script: consequences.js
---

<div id="box1" class="box">
 <a href="#">Social Consequences of Police Technology</a>
 <div>As was said above, the public often wonders how police technology will impact their freedoms and privacy. Also, there have been several technologies that increase public safety by not forcing police officers into dangerous car chases. When small cameras came into common use (especially in cell phones) police officers came under far more scrutiny as they were likely to be recorded when they interacted with the public, and since the coming of the Internet, the videos are often viewed by a mass audience. Thus, the actions of police are more widely known and heard about, and more likely to provoke a public outcry if they were questionable. Because of these technologies, both the police and citizenry know more about each other. This has both a positive impact in that police officers are subject to a higher standard of accountability, but can negatively impact society when citizens draw the wrong conclusions from a video posted publicly, and then act on them.  

A hot topic of debate is the potential use of drones by law enforcement, lately. A common theme in the discussion of drones is “If a drone takes an aerial photo, does this constitute a breach of the police department not having a search warrant on everyone and everything that could be in the picture?” There are many sides to the argument, with police departments saying that the drones will give them new abilities to track criminals and enforce the law. However, many say that this could severely cut back on the amount of privacy citizens are afforded, and that the use of drones by law enforcement must be heavily regulated to ensure that the public’s privacy is protected. As one can see, many aspects of enforcing the law are balancing the rights and freedoms of those being policed and being able to police them well. </div>
</div>
<div id="box2" class="box">
 <a href="#">Economic Consequences of Police Technology</a>
 <div>
  <p>Economically, these technologies have done a great deal for society. Since the economic recession in 2008, police departments have had their budgets cut. Thus, they have had to make do with less. Though many of the technologies are very expensive, they allow police officers to be far more effective, and in some cases, do so and save money, as is the case with the Recon Scout, a $9,000 robotic throwable camera that replaced a $20,000 dog in several police departments. America’s police departments are also in a state of testing many new technologies, some of which show promise. (See under the “Technologies” link) These technologies cost a lot of money, and this eats a large chunk from the department’s budget, which often comes from taxes. However, the recent changes in police technology may not have had enough time to truly affect the economy.</p>
  <p>Another aspect of police acquiring new, advanced technology is the effect that it will have on the companies that manufacture it. For many recently started companies in the technology industry, law enforcement agencies are a primary buyer. For instance, the LRAD Corporation, which makes and sells LRADs (see under “Technology”), sells many to police departments. As long as police departments look for new technologies to aid them, the market for them will continue.</p>
 </div>
</div>
<div id="box3" class="box">
 <a href="#">Political Impacts of Police Technology</a>
 <div>
   <p>Politically, the technology of law enforcement has created much debate about the freedoms of citizens. However, as law enforcement agencies try to balance the policing well and the privacy of those being policed, politicians get dragged in. There have been many instances of police searching without a search warrant, often provoking a court case, such as in United States vs. Jones.</p>
 </div>
</div>
